Welcome to JW Broadcasting®!
Here are some highlights
from this month’s program.
Sharon Hall couldn’t continue as a pioneer,
but she still wanted to expend herself
in Jehovah’s service.
What did she decide to do?
And what can we learn from her experience?
Many schools promote evolution as fact.
Is that what you’re being taught?
We’ll learn how you can take a stand
against this false idea and prove to yourself
that God exists.
And we’ll debut a new series
designed to sharpen
our skills in the ministry.
This is JW Broadcasting for October 2021.
Our theme for this month is
“You Are ‘Especially Acceptable’ to Jehovah.”
We love Jehovah,
and we want to give him our best.
But we want our sacrifices
to be acceptable to him.
So we may strive to be involved
as much as possible
in all the exciting things going on
in the organization.
But do you ever feel discouraged,
perhaps even guilty or frustrated
regarding your sacrifices to Jehovah?
In some cases, it may be
that you’re so involved
in so many different aspects of the work
that perhaps you’re not giving
adequate attention
to your spiritual, personal, or family needs.
Or, on the other hand,
it may be the opposite situation.
You may have those feelings
because you cannot do
as much as you’d like to
or as much as others are doing.
For example, you may have been
very involved in the work,
but unexpectedly your circumstances changed
because of your health
or some other calamity
that came along and shut things down.
Such feelings may cause us to ask ourselves,
‘What does Jehovah really expect of us?’
Well, we’re going to consider
three points in our discussion.
The first is this,
we need to set the right priorities.
Second,
do not compare yourselves unfavorably
with others.
And third,
remember what is important to Jehovah.
Let’s start with our first point:
Jehovah expects us to set
the right priorities.
But how can we do that?
Well, a scripture that’s helped me is found
at 2 Corinthians 8:12.
Now, at the time of this letter,
the Christians in Judea
were facing many trials.
And these trials included
famine, persecution,
and the plundering of their belongings.
They needed relief.
Now, previously, in his first letter,
Paul had encouraged the Corinthians
to set aside funds
to help the brothers in Judea.
Shortly thereafter, when Paul wrote
the second inspired letter
to the Corinthians,
he urged them to get their gifts ready.
So now, with this context of giving,
sacrificing, and helping others in mind,
let’s read 2 Corinthians 8:12:
“For if the readiness is there first,
“it is especially acceptable
“according to what a person has,
“not according to what a person
does not have.”
Paul here is discussing sacrifices
that are acceptable
and sacrifices
that are unacceptable to Jehovah.
What’s the difference?
Well, picture it this way.
Picture a young family in Corinth
—a father, mother, and children.
The father hears the letter from Paul
being read to the congregation,
and the father is very excited.
He wants to help his brothers in Judea.
Now, when the family gets home,
he discusses the matter with his wife.
He says: “We have a little money
“that we’ve set aside
to do some work on the house,
“and we were saving
to purchase another donkey.
“However, I’d like to take that money
and contribute it
to our needy brothers in Jerusalem.”
What do you think?
Would you say
that is an acceptable sacrifice?
Yes.
It’s a sacrifice
—he and his family
are donating money to help others—
but it’s according to what the family has.
That sacrifice would no doubt
be very precious to Jehovah.
You can picture how excited
the family would be
to support that decision.
But now let’s imagine a different family
in the same congregation.
This time, the husband comes home and says,
“I know we do not have any extra money,
“but I’d like to use the money
that we’ve set aside
“to feed our family for the next two weeks
and donate it to the brothers
that are in need in Jerusalem.”
What do you think now?
Would you say
that is an acceptable sacrifice?
It’s the same good motive,
the same good cause,
and it may even be the same amount of money.
But is it acceptable?
No.
Why?
It’s not according to what he has.
Jehovah does not want him
to take food away from his children.
Can you imagine him explaining
that decision to his family?
The father has a God-given responsibility
to feed his family.
Paul says,
‘Just give according to what you have.’
What’s the lesson for us?
How can this help us to maintain balance
and set the right priorities?
Well, our sacrifices
are acceptable to Jehovah
if we give according to what we have.
But our sacrifice would be unacceptable
if we try to give beyond what we have.
How can we apply that?
Well, there are certain areas
that Jehovah says are nonnegotiable.
What are some of those areas?
One is our relationship with Jehovah.
He expects us to keep
that relationship strong
by making time for such important activities
as lingering in prayer,
reading and meditating on God’s Word,
attending and participating in our meetings,
and having a meaningful share
in the ministry.
So, what we do in the way of work
for the organization
must never crowd out the spiritual activities
that keep us close to God.
You see, that would be unacceptable
to Jehovah.
Another example
is our family responsibilities.
Jehovah expects us to care for our family,
not only materially and physically
but also spiritually and emotionally.
So we must spend time together
in family worship, in the field ministry,
and in recreation.
That means that we must not allow
our work for the organization
to interfere with the necessary time we need
to care for our family.
That would be unacceptable to Jehovah.
Another example is our health.
Jehovah expects us to serve him whole-souled.
That involves doing all
that our health allows us to do.
So we do all that we can
to maintain our health
by eating well, getting enough sleep,
and exercising regularly.
Well, again, we must not allow
our work for the organization
to cause us to neglect our health.
That would be unacceptable to Jehovah.
So do you see the point?
What can help us to set the right priorities?
Well, again, remember the principle
here at 2 Corinthians 8:12.
Jehovah, in effect, says:
‘Give to me according to what you have,
‘not according to what you do not have.
And that will be
especially acceptable to me.’
And we know that even though
we have set the right priorities,
it’s still a challenge to maintain balance.
Balance is not something
that once you have it
you can just lock it in.
No, it’s like a tightrope walker
who must constantly recalibrate and adjust
to maintain balance.
The same is true
with maintaining balance in our lives.
I know it’s a constant process for me,
and I’d guess it’s just as challenging
for you as well.
We’ve had excellent articles
in our publications
that help with managing our time.
Here are two of them:
The April 2010 Awake!, page 7,
has an article entitled
“20 Ways to Create More Time,”
and the February 2014 Awake!, page 6,
“How to Invest Your Time Wisely.”
You may find these helpful
to do further research
on how to set the right priorities
and maintain balance.
A second point to help us maintain balance
is this: Do not compare yourselves
unfavorably with others.
There will always be ones
doing more in their service
to Jehovah than we are.
And if we start comparing ourselves to them
or feel that they are
more acceptable to Jehovah,
this can cause us to lose
not just our balance
but our joy as well.
When considering this aspect
of not comparing,
I think of the prophets
Daniel, Ezekiel, and Jeremiah.
As you remember, these men
were contemporaries of one another,
but each had very different circumstances.
Daniel was in the court
of the king in Babylon.
Yes, he had times of persecution
and challenges.
But overall, he was an official for the king.
He received special training
for his position.
So he may have had it relatively easy.
Ezekiel was living among his fellow exiles
in a community “by the river Chebar.”
Overall, things were fairly stable there.
Remember, the Jews in exile
had a measure of freedom.
They built houses, they had children,
they settled down,
and they developed skills in various trades.
So it seems that perhaps they had
a relatively stable life.
Then you have Jeremiah.
He was in Jerusalem.
It seems that somebody
was always trying to kill him.
Much of the time,
he was either hiding or in confinement.
So here’s the question,
Did the differing circumstances
of their assignments
mean that Jehovah loved or favored
one more than the other?
Not at all.
It was just an assignment.
Jehovah wanted a prophet in Jerusalem.
He wanted one with the exiles in Babylon,
and he wanted another
in the court of the king.
It was just the way the assignments fell.
Now, you can imagine
how counterproductive it would’ve been
for each of these three men
to judge his value
based on his assignment
or to compare himself to the other two.
It could happen.
Think about it.
Ezekiel and Jeremiah
could have looked at Daniel and thought:
‘Ah, he has direct access to the king.
‘He’s living where all the big decisions
are being made.
‘He’s right in the center of it all.
‘He can use his influence
to help Jehovah’s people.
‘What a privilege that would be!
I wish I was there!’
Or Daniel and Jeremiah
could’ve looked at Ezekiel
and felt that’s where they wished they were:
‘We would have at least relative freedom
with the exiles.
‘We’d be able to encourage
our fellow worshippers of Jehovah.
We could help others learn about Jehovah.’
Or, believe it or not, Daniel and Ezekiel
could’ve looked at Jeremiah and thought:
‘We know things are tough,
but that’s where we want to be.
‘He’s on the front lines, risking his life
for Jehovah and the nation.
That’s where the action is.’
Different assignments,
different circumstances,
different locations
—but they were all special to Jehovah.
What’s the lesson?
The lesson is
that we must be careful
that we do not compare ourselves
unfavorably with others.
It is good to see
if we can imitate and benefit
from the example of others,
but we need to be careful
that we do not begin determining the value
of what we’re doing for Jehovah
based on what others are doing.
That could cause us to lose our joy,
lose our balance,
and fall into the trap
of doing things for the wrong reasons.
That brings us to our last point:
Remember what is important to Jehovah.
Circumstances change in life.
As mentioned, in the past we may have been
extremely busy in Jehovah’s service.
But because of the world’s situation,
that may have changed.
Or other circumstances in our life
may have changed.
Does that somehow change
how Jehovah feels about us?
No.
How do we know?
What is important to Jehovah?
What makes you
“especially acceptable” to Jehovah?
Well, let’s read together
Acts 10:34, 35:
“At this Peter began to speak, and he said:
“‘Now I truly understand
“‘that God is not partial,
“‘but in every nation the man who fears him
“‘and does what is right
is acceptable to him.’”
Fear Jehovah.
Do what is right.
Obey his commandments.
That’s it.
That’s what makes us acceptable to Jehovah.
We complicate things at times
and equate our responsibilities
—how we’re used,
where we’re asked to serve—
as things that define our value.
That’s not how Jehovah sees things.
A scripture that has helped me
is found at Ecclesiastes 3:10:
“I have seen the occupation
“that God has given to the sons of men
to keep them occupied.”
“The occupation” refers
to our activities, the things we do.
And Jehovah has given us work
to keep us occupied.
Whenever I read that,
I think of parents with their children.
Perhaps they take them to the beach
for the afternoon, and what do they do?
They give them some toys,
and they let them play.
Why?
To keep them occupied.
And that, in a way,
is what Jehovah does with us.
If you think about it,
Jehovah does not need us to do the work.
Jehovah can accomplish his work without us,
but he dignifies us and allows us
to have a share.
He provides us with meaningful work.
Note what it goes on to say in verse 13
of Ecclesiastes chapter 3:
“Also that everyone should eat and drink
“and find enjoyment for all his hard work.
It is the gift of God.”
Work is a gift from Jehovah.
Is it reasonable to think
that Jehovah would give a gift
that stresses us out
or creates hardship for us?
No.
He wants us to find enjoyment in our work.
We are the ones that may get too concerned
with assigning rank and priority
to various privileges
and locations of service
—where we are in the sand
and what toys we have to play with.
What is important to Jehovah?
Notice our final scripture
at Ecclesiastes 12:13:
“The conclusion of the matter,
“everything having been heard, is:
“Fear the true God
“and keep his commandments,
for this is the whole obligation of man.”
Fear Jehovah.
Keep his commandments.
Just serve Jehovah.
Do the best that you can.
Stay balanced.
Give according to what you have.
Those are the important things.
And if you do them, no matter what
your personal circumstances,
you will remain
“especially acceptable” to Jehovah.
Now let’s look at some situations
that could challenge us to maintain balance.
In the following dramatization,
notice how the two characters
maintain balance.
Ms. Kwon?
Oh!
Sorry.
Ms. Kwon?
I’m so slow today.
It’s OK.
Take your time.
So can you pioneer next month?
No doubt you will experience
greater joy . . .
Brother Joo?
Brother Joo? Over here.
Yes, Sister Kwon.
Can I have one too?
Uh, of course.
Just a moment, please.
Brother Joo, I have
many doctors’ appointments next month,
but maybe—
Uh, OK.
Yeah.
I wrote a little something
that might help you when you fill it out.
Oh, I see.
Here you go.
Thank you.
And remember, our circuit overseer’s visit
is in two months.
Mm-hm.
And only 30 hours are required that month.
I see.
Brother Joo?
Yes. Hello, Brother Lee.
Yes.
Hello, Sister Kwon.
Hello, Brother Lee.
Nice job covering those parts
at the last minute.
Anyway, it seems like everyone is away.
Hello, Sister Kwon.
Can I ask you to do something?
Here’s what I need.
Hello, Sister Joo.
If you want to get something done,
give it to a busy man.
We can always count on you.
Hannah and I
were beginning to feel overwhelmed.
. . . in Jesus’ name we pray. Amen.
Brother Joo,
may I have a moment?
I need your help with something.
Then Brother Kim needed help
with the territories.
Of course, we loved being busy
with theocratic work.
Yes, Brother Kim?
Just a second.
It’s Brother Kim
calling about the territories.
I’ll only take a minute.
Yes, uh-huh.
I see.
Yes, I understand.
OK, sounds good.
Other more important things
were beginning to suffer.
It’s like doctors’ appointments
are my whole life now.
I have so many next month,
and they take forever to reschedule.
How could I possibly make my time?
There’s something written here.
“Prayerfully consider 2 Corinthians 8:12.”
“If the readiness is there . . .
“[oh, I am ready],
“. . . according to what a person has,
not according to what a person
does not have.”
Hmm.
Jehovah wanted the Israelites
to sacrifice their best,
but just imagine what would happen
if they tried to do more than they could.
I can almost hear the reaction.
Dad!
Where did all the sheep go?
All of them?
What are we supposed to live on?
No.
He didn’t want them to sacrifice so much
that they couldn’t support their families.
I need those appointments.
But maybe in two months
when I don’t have so many appointments
and it’s the circuit overseer’s visit,
I could set a goal.
We knew we were taking on too much work.
But could we say no?
We wanted Jehovah’s view.
What’s so funny?
Um.
There’s something I just shared
with Sister Kwon
that is perfect for us too
—2 Corinthians 8:12.
“According to what a person has”
—it’s just like our financial contributions.
Exactly.
Honey, would Jehovah
want us to get into debt
to make a huge contribution
we couldn’t afford?
Amen.
You know, that scripture that we just read—
Brother Kim Si-Young.
Territories again?
Yes.
But I’ll tell him that I’ll call him
after family worship.
We can’t give what’s not ours.
And we can’t let
our spiritual routine suffer,
even for theocratic privileges.
Note this promise in the Bible.
Look at this flower.
Isn’t it beautiful?
I love this time of year.
Thank you both so much
for your help this month.
It felt good to find the right balance
and to know we’re giving Jehovah all we can.
How did our brother and sister feel
when they set priorities
that were right for them?
They were not downhearted
that they couldn’t do more.
No, they felt good
knowing they were giving Jehovah
all they can give.
Now let’s consider a different situation.
After serving as a regular pioneer
for many years,
Sharon Hall couldn’t continue
in full-time service.
But she still wanted to give
Jehovah something special.
I started pioneering in 1978,
straight out of school.
And then after 17 years,
I had to stop because I could no longer meet
the hour requirement.
At one of the conventions, I saw
some sisters interpreting the program
into sign language.
And so I thought
that even if I couldn’t continue pioneering,
I could do something more
in Jehovah’s service
by learning sign language,
and so I started to do that.
Because I was deeply grateful to Jehovah
for all he had done for me,
I resumed pioneering again
in September 2009.
And then I had the added blessing
of now pioneering in the sign-language field.
One day I met Cecilia.
She suffers from a genetic syndrome called
Usher Syndrome, which causes deafness
coupled with tunnel vision
that can, over time, lead to blindness.
Because of that disability,
it made her extremely shy.
So it was very difficult
to communicate with her.
I started studying with her
in October 2009,
and very quickly
she started attending meetings.
I would fetch her for the meetings
and then drop her off at home afterward.
I lived about five minutes
from the Kingdom Hall,
but she was thirty minutes away.
And I quickly realized
that she would also need to put in effort
to get to the meetings
in order to make progress.
Cecilia lived close
to where she could catch a taxi
up to the train line,
and then it would be two train journeys
to get to the Kingdom Hall.
So it would take her, each way,
an hour and a half to two hours.
She also lived in a notoriously unsafe area
because of gang violence.
But I knew that Cecilia was
strong-willed enough and independent enough,
in spite of her timidity and reticence,
to be able to get herself to the meetings.
Cecilia was attending meetings regularly.
But instead of a skirt,
she wore pants to the meetings.
So I chatted to Nancy,
a sister who at the time was accompanying me
to her study most weeks,
so that we could try
and figure out a way of helping her
to make the change she needed to make.
It took about a year
of gently showing pictures
and reviewing the Bible principles,
but eventually she did get the point.
One of the weekends
that she was staying over,
I went into her room,
and on her bed, neatly laid out,
was a skirt and top
ready for the meeting.
I thanked Jehovah at that point
because, finally,
our patience had been rewarded.
We had all of our meetings on a Saturday
with a lunch break in between
when we would associate,
but we noticed that Cecilia
was isolating herself.
To reinforce for Cecilia
the principle at Acts 20:35,
a friend came up with the good idea
of helping her
to bake cookies the day before the meeting.
Cecilia shyly offered the cookies
to each person there
during the lunch break,
and it elicited such a warm response
from the brothers and sisters
and friends there.
It really drove home the point for Cecilia,
and it was beautiful to see her, after that,
come out of her shell.
In July 2014,
Cecilia gave her first student talk,
and in that month
she also started publishing.
There have been challenges, particularly
with learning sign language
but even more so
in getting to understand the deaf culture
—the way that they think—
and also financial hardships.
But the challenges and the sacrifices
were far outweighed by the blessings.
A day that’s etched in my memory
is the day that she told me
she wanted to get baptized.
Cecilia has really become
like a daughter to me,
and I’m so proud of the enormous strides
that she made in the truth.
In October 2015, she was baptized,
and I cried with joy that day.
I’ve been pioneering now for 28 years.
And over that time,
particularly since I started again
(and with Cecilia),
many, many, many brothers and sisters
in the congregation helped me.
They accompanied me to her study;
they became friends with her;
they took over when I went away.
I could never have done it on my own.
Above all,
Jehovah has helped me to cultivate qualities
like patience, self-control,
humility, compassion.
It was really wonderful to play a small part
—such a privilege—
to help Cecilia
to become part of Jehovah’s family.
Sharon’s decision required sacrifice,
but it led to wonderful blessings for her
and for Cecilia.
We hope that young Witnesses
have been enjoying our series My Teen Life.
It features real issues that you face today.
Our next episode
deals with one
of life’s most important questions:
Why believe in God?
Have you ever asked yourself that,
even though you’ve been reading the Bible
and attending meetings for years?
Listen to your peers explain
how they convinced themselves
that God does exist.
So I’m sitting in physics class,
and all of a sudden,
the subject of evolution comes up.
When my teacher asked me, “Why?”
—to give the reason why I don’t believe
in evolution—
I remember all I could say was: “It’s just
because I’m one of Jehovah’s Witnesses.
And that’s my belief.”
Many students actually believe
—like, they seem so sure—
that evolution is a fact.
I could feel my hands, like my palms,
getting sweaty
and was just nervous.
I felt intimidated.
I just sat there.
I felt paralyzed,
and I couldn’t defend the truth.
Why can’t I explain this?
I could explain so easily
why I don’t salute the flag
and why I don’t celebrate birthdays.
I didn’t understand
why I couldn’t explain this specific topic.
I had doubts.
And I was asking myself questions like:
‘Does God really exist?
Is the Bible accurate?’
So that day, after I came home from school,
I went to my mom and I told her,
“This is what happened at school, and I need—
I need answers.”
I felt like I didn’t know what to do,
especially since my parents
were not serving Jehovah.
So I had to pray to Jehovah to help me.
So she sat me down at the computer.
We went to jw.org,
and then in the search box,
my mom told me to type in anything
that was the problem
—what I had questions on.
So we typed in “evolution.”
That’s when I clicked
on The Origin of Life  brochure.
It just started, like, coming in.
Everything started clicking as if, like,
you know, there’s a light bulb that went off.
So in one of the videos in the “Viewpoints
on the Origin of Life” section,
it talked about the brain
and how the brain is so complex
that billions and billions
of neurons are connected to one another.
It amazed me so much
that because of the brain,
we can move our hands,
we can move our feet,
we can do facial expressions.
We can do so many things
because of this great part of the body
—the brain.
It had, you know, the exact questions
that I was having trouble understanding.
And for each question, I was like,
‘Oh, I remember reading this
in one of the Watchtowers
or one of the books I was studying.’
But it broke it down into ways
and into words that were simple for me
to understand at that point.
So it was almost—
It felt like
Jehovah was talking to me
through this brochure.
And it just felt—
I was like, ‘This is what I need to read.’
And that’s what helped me get through it.
So I thought to myself:
‘This couldn’t have been
‘made just by chance.
‘It couldn’t just exist by an accident.
‘It had to be created.
It had to be designed.’
So I was able to go back.
I went to my science class,
and I told my teacher,
“I’m ready to explain why.”
So here we go again.
It’s physics class.
It’s the same topic all over again.
But this time it was different.
I was able to defend my faith in Jehovah.
I realized that, you know,
Jehovah always provides the answers
to any topic—anything.
I just have to be willing to go and find it.
Whenever I have questions about anything,
I look for the answers.
But first, I pray to Jehovah.
And Jehovah has made it so easy for us
to find the truth.
And I’m totally convinced
that whatever he says in the Bible,
we can completely trust in it.
As we saw, it’s important
that you teens
do more than disprove evolution.
The underlying issue
is whether you personally believe in God.
Use your “power of reason”
to prove to yourself that he does exist.
We’re very excited
to share with you a new series.
Many of us enjoy
the visit of our circuit overseer,
especially the way
he takes the lead in the ministry.
Often, the circuit overseer helps us
to apply suggestions from the faithful slave
on how to better carry out our ministry.
This new series features
experienced circuit overseers
doing just that,
helping us sharpen our skills
in the disciple-making work.
The series is called Iron Sharpens Iron.
In our first episode, Taylor Bornschein
shares suggestions
on how to effectively start conversations.
Hi, I’m Taylor,
and this is “Iron Sharpens Iron.”
Today, we’re going to practice
how to start a conversation
that could lead to a witness.
Now, for many, this can be terrifying.
Why?
Well, as soon as we see someone
that we’d like to talk to,
we can start to think to ourselves:
‘What am I going to say?
How am I going to give a witness?’
Or, ‘How are they going to react?’
And we can become
so overwhelmed with anxiety or nerves,
thinking about how the conversation will end,
that we never even start.
So here’s something
that we must keep in mind.
Our goal is simply
to start  a conversation.
So if we’ve started a conversation,
we’ve succeeded—we’ve reached our goal!
Then we can just relax
and see if it leads to a witness.
The September 2018
Life and Ministry Meeting Workbook
shows us how we can start a conversation
like Jesus did with the Samaritan woman
in John chapter 4.
So when we see someone
that we would like to talk to,
we want to keep these three steps in mind:
Step 1: Be friendly.
That’s it.
Just be friendly.
Now, we could be nervous.
So we can say a quick prayer
to Jehovah to give us courage,
but then we can give a friendly greeting.
Then we can mention something
that’s happening right then and there:
maybe the weather,
a long line at the grocery store,
their nice car,
or another genuine compliment.
When Jesus started his conversation,
in verse 7,
with the Samaritan woman, he simply said
(and no doubt in a friendly way):
“Give me a drink.”
Step 2:
Let the conversation progress naturally.
Don’t rush it.
If the conversation ends before we are able
to give a witness, it’s OK.
We accomplished our goal.
We started a conversation.
Now we’re ready to try again.
Now, if the conversation continues on,
then we can look for an opportunity
to take step 3:
Make a simple expression of our faith.
Seven verses after Jesus
started the conversation
with the Samaritan woman,
he then witnessed to her.
He said he had water
that imparts everlasting life.
But between those two points,
he didn’t lecture her.
He let her talk and express herself,
and he listened to what she had to say.
So with those three steps in mind,
now it’s our turn.
It’s our turn to practice
starting a conversation
that could lead to a witness.
Now, tied in with us, we have
Taís and Carolina
who have joined us for a demonstration.
So where are you going to try
to start your conversation today?
We are in a department store.
Yes, we are in a Portuguese congregation,
and it’s common to hear people speak
Portuguese when we are out shopping.
Excellent.
So you’ve heard the three steps
that we want to try.
But first, let’s see what could happen
if we rush the conversation.
OK.
Oi, tudo bem?
I heard you speaking Portuguese.
Where are you from?
Oi, I’m from Rio de Janeiro.
I’m from São Paulo.
How long have you been here?
Just three months.
It’s so hard to adjust, isn’t it?
You know, the Bible helped me so much
when I moved here.
I don’t want to keep you from your shopping,
but you can read
the Bible in Portuguese on our website,
and it has articles
that I know you will find comforting.
OK, so time-out.
Now, Taís, we know
you rushed that on purpose,
but how did it make you feel when you did?
Yeah, it didn’t feel right
to start witnessing so quickly.
And I saw that she wasn’t expecting it.
Right.
And Carolina, how about you?
How did it make you feel?
It started OK,
but then it got awkward real fast.
Right.
So now, maybe you can show us
what it’s like when the conversation
will progress more naturally.
OK.
Oi, tudo bem?
I heard you speaking Portuguese.
Where are you from?
Oi, I’m from Rio de Janeiro.
Oh, nice.
I’m from São Paulo.
I recognized your accent.
I’m Taís.
I’m Carolina.
Nice to meet you.
Wow!
How long have you been here?
Only three months.
Well, for me it’s been three years,
and the first was the hardest.
Yes, we finally have work.
But we are still looking for a place to live.
And immigration has been harder
than we thought.
Wow!
I’m so sorry.
Do you have family with you?
My husband.
We had to leave our son with my mother.
I miss him so much.
Wow, that’s so hard.
But we have to keep trusting in God.
In my case, it’s what got me through.
I know, but I still worry when I don’t know
what He will do for us.
OK, so let’s stop there.
Really nice, thank you.
So Taís, where do you feel
the conversation is at at this point?
Yeah, I felt like I found a good time
to say something about my faith.
And now she’s saying how she feels.
Nice, excellent.
And Carolina, how about you?
It was just a nice conversation.
So when she mentioned God,
it was not awkward.
Thank you, sisters, for letting us
learn from your conversation.
I found that helpful, and I hope you did too.
Make it your goal to start conversations
with those three steps:
Be friendly, converse naturally,
and find the right time
to express your faith.
Practice at home or with a friend,
and see for yourself
how “iron sharpens iron.”
That was a great demonstration!
Future episodes of Iron Sharpens Iron
will show us more ways
to enhance our skills as ministers.
Each of us wants to be a source of comfort
and encouragement to our brothers.
That was the subject
of a recent morning worship
by Brother William Turner.
Well, I think we would agree
that it’s very heart-warming to know
that we serve a God of comfort,
and he provides us with so many reminders
that highlight the need for us to encourage,
strengthen, and comfort one another.
Especially now in the times in which we live,
because none of us know the full weight
of what our brothers
here in the Bethel family
and our congregations
might be facing or dealing with.
So having and showing empathy
and fellow feeling
toward one another is so important.
Perhaps a good example of how not to show
comfort and fellow feeling
is described for us
by Job’s three comforters.
You might recall
that they were so busy judging him
and giving Job speeches
that they failed to take the time
to understand him
and to show fellow feeling.
In fact, in all the talking they did,
not once do we read
that they even addressed Job by name.
The Watchtower  made a statement
regarding these comforters.
It said: “Evidently they viewed [Job]
more as a problem than as a person.”
Now, how do you think
that treatment made Job feel?
Turn with me in your Bibles
to Job chapter 19,
and we’ll listen to Job’s words
—Job 19:2.
He says:
“How long will you keep irritating my soul,
crushing me with words?”
How sad!
Instead of providing
encouragement and comfort,
those companions
only made Job feel irritated,
crushed, and frustrated.
Well, doesn’t this highlight
that if we don’t give thoughts
to our words and actions,
if we view our brother
more as a problem than as a person,
then we’re not going
to be able to provide them
with the comfort
and support they may need?
Perhaps we might work with
or we’re in the congregation
with someone that has faults
or traits that bother us,
and it may be that these faults
are actually legitimate causes of concern.
But in our dealings with them,
if those faults
are the only things that we can see,
if that’s the only thing we focus on,
then it’s going to be very difficult
for us to see them
as a faithful fellow worker of Jehovah.
More than likely,
all that we’re going to see
is someone who is an obstacle
or impediment to our work,
someone who is affecting
or impacting our production and joy.
And certainly,
we’re not going to feel good
because now we’ve developed
negative feelings about our brother,
and our brother is likely going
to feel the spirit that we give off.
How is that going to affect them?
Well, like Job, likely they’re going
to be frustrated and irritated,
and we’ve only added to their anxiety.
Well, obviously, none of us want to have
that sort of effect on our brothers,
and that’s why Paul’s words
to the Thessalonians
are a good example worthy of imitation.
When we look at this congregation
—practically from the beginning,
the congregation
that was established in Thessalonica—
those brothers and sisters
experienced persecution.
In Acts chapter 17,
it mentions that fanatical Jews
stirred up mob violence,
prompting the brothers
to send Paul and Silas away
for their personal safety.
Another issue
that was affecting the congregation
was that they
seemingly expressed great sorrow
over losing ones of their number in death.
So now think about that.
You have the full picture.
Here you have a brand new congregation,
and they’re feeling the heat and pressure
of intense persecution from the outside,
and then on the inside,
they’re feeling the pain
of losing loved ones in death.
Is that congregation in need
of comfort and encouragement?
Without question.
But interestingly, in the midst
of all of this persecution and sadness,
it was also discovered that those Christians
were dealing and struggling
with some personal weaknesses.
When you look at 1 Thessalonians chapter 4,
there they were counseled
to abstain from fornication,
to love one another in fuller measure,
to mind their own business,
to work with their hands.
Then in chapter 5,
to stay awake spiritually
and to abstain from every form of wickedness
and a number of other matters
that needed attention.
Now, each of those matters
were all legitimate causes of concern.
In fact, Paul felt this was so urgent
that he sent them a second letter
which closely followed his first.
But what was Paul going to focus on?
Would he focus on the problem
or the people?
Turn with me, please,
to 2 Thessalonians chapter 1.
Let’s note how Paul begins this chapter.
Second Thessalonians chapter 1,
and we’ll read his words
beginning in verse 3.
He says: “We are obligated always
to give thanks to God for you, brothers.
“This is fitting,
because your faith is growing exceedingly
“and the love of each and every one of you
is increasing toward one another.
“As a result we ourselves take pride in you
among the congregations of God
“because of your endurance
and faith in all your persecutions
and the hardships that you are suffering.”
How beautiful!
Did you note that Paul starts
with specific commendation?
Yes, there were problems
that needed to be addressed,
but he starts with their good qualities
—what they were doing right.
Can you and I do the same
in our dealings with our brothers?
Instead of first thinking
about what they’re doing wrong,
what do they do right?
What do we appreciate about them?
Isn’t it so much better
to focus on their good traits?
The benefits of doing this
is that it helps us to develop
genuine personal interest in our brothers.
Because if our brothers
can sense that we truly care about them,
then it actually puts us in a better position
to assist them with any matters
that may need adjustment.
And what we’ll find
is that this personal interest
can start with something
as simple as acknowledgement.
You’ll recall that Job’s false comforters
didn’t even address Job by name.
But with the young man Elihu,
when he was given the opportunity to speak
(when addressing Job),
he respectfully addressed him by name.
At Job 33:1,
Elihu begins his words by saying:
“Job, please hear my words.”
And there were many other verses
where he used Job’s personal name as well.
I think we’d agree
that sometimes it can be so easy
(especially for us as brothers),
to get into work mode, business mode
—where we’re just so focused
on getting information,
whether it’s here at Bethel
or in the congregation—
that we could completely forget
to acknowledge
or even greet
the brother in front of us.
So what a beautiful reminder
we learn from Elihu!
Now, if we go back to Paul,
after his commendation
in 2 Thessalonians chapter 1,
he starts chapter 2
of 2 Thessalonians with the word
“however.”
So now there’s a contrast;
there’s a shift in wording,
and he begins to address
the problem that some had developed
regarding a wrong view of Christ’s presence.
So we learn from this
that Paul did not sugarcoat or overlook
issues that needed to be addressed.
He handled them.
But he did it in such a way
that the brothers were still able to feel
his loving care and concern.
In fact, if you look in verse 13,
you’ll notice he uses
the word “however” again.
So another shift,
but this time shifting back
to words of empathy, love,
and exhortation for his brothers.
Paul was convinced,
he had a positive conviction,
that his brothers would do the right thing.
So in review,
if we want to be a source
of comfort and encouragement to our brothers,
how important it is that we see them
not as a problem,
not as an impediment to our work,
but as our fellow worker.
And instead of judging, we commend
—showing genuine personal interest
and acknowledgement.
And if there is
a legitimate issue of concern,
well, we can lovingly address
what needs to be addressed.
But let’s always be remembered more
for our encouragement than our counsel.
And if we’re able to do this,
then our brothers are going to love us
for the way that we deal with them.
But more important, our Heavenly Father,
our God of comfort will love us as well.
In our program, we’ve discussed the value
of setting the right priorities.
This is particularly important
during our youth,
when we’re encouraged
to give our best years to Jehovah.
As our new song reminds us,
we will never regret making that a priority.
When you were younger,
life seemed so simple.
You did your best
to do what’s right—
Giving answers
and preaching the good news;
You would pray each
and ev’ry night.
But as you got older,
with this world trying to mold you,
Suddenly it was not so easy
to be knocking on those doors.
But as you get taller,
smarter, trying to work harder,
Never let go of Jehovah.
The best is still in store.
You have a treasured place
in Jehovah’s house;
He’ll help you out.
And you have so much to offer,
so much to do.
Jehovah sees your faith;
Know he treasures you.
Now you are older
and dealing with changes,
Like all the trials
have just begun.
Growing anxious
from all of your fears—
Talk to God;
he always listens.
And as you get wiser,
find the ways you can apply
The truth in your life
and feel the joy of sacrifice.
And as you get taller,
smarter, trying to work harder,
Never let go of Jehovah.
The best is still in store.
You have a treasured place
in Jehovah’s house;
He’ll help you out.
And you have so much to offer,
so much to do.
Jehovah sees your faith;
Know he treasures you.
So use your strength
for Jehovah’s name.
You won’t regret it;
just ask the ones who did it.
You have a treasured place
in Jehovah’s house;
He’ll help you out.
And you have so much to offer,
so much to do.
Jehovah sees your faith;
Know he treasures you.
So use your strength
for Jehovah’s name.
You won’t regret it;
just ask the ones who did it.
So use your strength
for Jehovah’s name.
You won’t regret it;
just ask the ones who did it.
In this month’s program,
we learned the value of maintaining balance.
We cannot let our spiritual routine suffer,
even for theocratic privileges.
Sharon Hall made sacrifices
to do more for Jehovah,
and she received many blessings.
We saw how teens use
their power of reason
to prove to themselves
that God exists.
And the first episode of our new series,
Iron Sharpens Iron,
showed how we can start conversations
by being alert for opportunities
and by being friendly and kind.
Now it’s time for our video postcard.
Let’s visit our brothers and sisters
in Madagascar.
Lying off the east coast of Africa,
Madagascar is the fourth largest island
in the world.
Its climate and diverse terrain make it
a sanctuary for an amazing variety
of plants and animals.
The baobab tree is known
for its barrel-shaped trunk
and extraordinary longevity.
There are nine species
of baobab in the world.
Six can be found only in Madagascar.
About 40 different species
of lemur live here.
Among them is the ring-tailed lemur,
and this one is called Coquerel’s sifaka.
Rice fields dot many parts of the country.
Rice is the staple food
of the Malagasy people.
Antsirabe is Madagascar’s third largest city
and home to 34 congregations.
Since few in Madagascar have running water,
many people can be contacted
while they do their laundry
in rivers and lakes.
Let’s visit Tanambao Sahafony,
a remote community on the southeastern coast.
Our brothers share the good news
despite frequent rain showers
and the great distances
they have to walk between villages.
Response to the Kingdom message is strong,
and many ask for a Bible study.
Here, two sisters are conducting a study
while others wait their turn.
Interested ones
walk up to 16 kilometers, or about 10 miles,
every week to attend meetings.
The village has no electricity.
So to download big video files
such as convention videos,
this elder and other brothers
travel 12 hours,
mainly by boat, to the nearest town.
There are 32 publishers in the congregation,
but on average, 150 people
attend weekend meetings
—40 percent of them children.
Our dear brothers and sisters
from the Tanambao Sahafony Congregation
in Madagascar send their love and greetings
to the worldwide brotherhood.
From the World Headquarters
of Jehovah’s Witnesses,
this is JW Broadcasting.